# Guardian Application

## Views

### 1. Home View

The main view displays user information and groups the current day's rides for the student(s).

### 2. Messages

**Ride Communication**

Ride cancellation and ride-related communication are linked to ride pickup and drop-off events. These messages are specific to each student's ride events and are visible only to the ride organizer, driver, and the student with their guardian. Each of them can write a free-form message, e.g., additional information regarding pickup or delivery.

In addition, the system's "Bot" sends automated messages related to ride status changes. The message thread also includes information about ride approaching, student pickup, and ride completion.

The activity is recorded in the ride event message thread. The messages remain visible for one week.

**Route-specific Messages / Route Notices**

Route-specific communication is intended for sending notices to all participants of a route, mainly for informing by the ride organizer or for driver communication in exceptional situations.

The guardian also has the possibility to communicate to the entire route through this channel, but it should be noted that the message will be visible to all participants of the route.

Notices can be accessed by clicking the megaphone button in the route header. Unread messages are highlighted in red.

**Push Notifications**

The application uses push notifications on mobile devices to convey changes when the application is not actively in use. Notifications utilize the mobile device's notification center and can be displayed on the locked screen if desired, allowing, for example, confirmation of student pickup or delivery without unlocking the phone. By tapping the notification, the information is updated in the application.

Notifications are created for all ride events, ride approaching, and messages related to rides or routes.

Notifications only work on mobile devices. They can be disabled in the settings, but without notifications, the information will not update in real-time.

### 3. Students

#### Student Information

In addition to the main view, student information can also be accessed from the swipe menu under "Students". If there are multiple students, a specific student can be viewed by clicking on their card.

The page also shows the transportation agreement, ride calendar, and past and upcoming/active rides.

**Ride Calendar**

The student's "ride calendar" is related to the duration of their school day. The ride calendar is a plan for the arrival and departure times at school. Based on the calendar, the system creates optimized routes for each day.

Calendar events are created in advance with the help of the ride organizer and automation. Through this, the guardian can see the planned schedules and cancel the need for transportation in advance for a specific day or, for example, only for the afternoon.

**Rides**

The application creates and optimizes rides and routes daily. Optimization takes into account the students' schedules and absences as a whole, as well as the maximum duration of transportation required by law.

Once the route is created, the student's scheduled ride events are visible on the guardian's home page.

**Cancellations**

Cancellations can be made in advance and after the route has been created. When a route is canceled in advance, the vehicles do not drive unnecessarily, and the routes can be optimized to be faster.

If a longer absence is known, e.g., due to illness, rides can be canceled in advance for multiple days. Rides can also be canceled for only the evening or morning, for example.

**Cancelling a Ride in Advance**

Advance cancellation is done from the "calendar". Calendar events can be canceled until the route optimization is done. If a longer absence is known, e.g., due to illness, rides can be canceled in advance for multiple days.

When canceling, select the ride to be canceled and then select "cancel ride" from the menu. The parent cannot freely add or modify rides, so cancellation is binding. If a ride is accidentally canceled, contact the ride organizer.

**Cancelling a Student's Ride when the Route is Already Created**

Canceling a student's ride is linked to ride events. Canceling a ride "last minute," i.e., when the route is already created, is done with the ride event action button.

The guardian can cancel the ride by pressing the button. The cancellation applies to the ride event, and information about the cancellation is sent to the parties involved in the ride event, i.e., the student, guardian, driver, and ride organizer. Separate cancellation communication is not required, but if desired, the guardian can send a clarifying message to the ride event.

A canceled ride can also be reinstated, but there is a risk that the driver has already passed the location.

### 4. My Profile

In the profile, language settings and push notifications for the application can be managed.